To create a cluster,
you'll need to run the az aks create command with two or three parameters.
--Resource-group is the name of the resource group you
created and where this cluster will be placed.
--Name is the name you want for your cluster.
--Node-vm-size is what type of VMs you want to use
for the nodes in your node pool.
This is an optional parameter,
but you might have to use it if the default node type
is not available in your location.
When you put it all together, it would look something like this.
Again, some shorthand flags are used.
Az aks create -g, name of the resource group,
-n, name for the cluster, --node- vm.size,
then a valid node size.
When you're running this in your actual environment,
don't be surprised if it takes several minutes for these commands to complete.
In the end you should get a message that it has succeeded.
At this point it is just the cluster itself; we don't have anything deployed.
It's basically just Kube Master, the infrastructure, and your node pool.
In order to create a deployment in your Azure Kubernetes Service cluster,
you need to explicitly set a few permissions.
You'll use the az aks show and az acr show commands to get the
necessary ids of your cluster and registry.
Then you'll use az role assignment create to give your
cluster permission to pull from your registry.
You'll also need to get credentials for kubectl to connect to this cluster.
You'll use the az aks get-credentials command for this,
passing in the name of the resource group and the name of the cluster.
You may also need to enable monitoring with the az aks enable-addons command.
If monitoring is already enabled for the cluster, it will let you know.
Once the permissions are in place,
we'll use kubectl to create a deployment named demo app
using the image we pushed earlier, identified by the full name that we pushed.
For example, kubectl create deployment, deployment name,
--image=, then the image that was pushed to the repository.
Once the app is running,
we'll need a load balancer service to map the ports and
allow us to hit the app externally.
This is also accomplished with kubectl.
Kubectl expose deployment, deployment name,
type is LoadBalancer, then the port and target port.
In this case the app is running on port 5000 so we just kept that mapping.
There's nothing restricting you from having a different port and target port.
I'm going to make a couple of environment variables so
it's easier to assign these permissions.
First, I'll get the id for the cluster, next the id for the registry.
Now I can create the role assignment,
allowing the cluster to pull from the registry.
Again, this might take a couple of minutes,
but in the end, you should see something like this.
Next, we'll get the credentials to configure kubectl,
then try a kubectl get nodes to make sure that it works.
Here I can see the three nodes that are in the node pool
in the cluster that I just created.
There are no pods for our application, because we haven't deployed it yet.
With permissions in place, you can now create the deployment.
I'll call it demo-app,
and it's going to use the 1.0 version of our
application that we pushed to the repository.
I'll expose the deployment on port 5000,
then run kubectl get service to find the external IP so we can try it out.
I'll bring up a browser and hit that IP at port 5000,
and here we could see the message from our application.
Everything is working as we expect.
You now have an application that you have built and pushed to the cloud running on a cloud Kubernetes cluster.